2001 New Year Honours
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2001_New_Year_Honours
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License

2001 New Year Honours
    • 

The 2001 New Year Honours List is one of the annual New Year Honours, a part of the British honours system, where New Year's Day, 1 January, is marked in several Commonwealth countries by appointing new members of orders of chivalry and recipients of other official honours.
    • Awards for 2001, announced on 30 December 2000, included the United Kingdom, New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Barbados, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize and Saint Christopher and Nevis.


The 2001 New Year Honours List is one of the annual New Year Honours, a part of the British honours system, where New Year's Day, 1 January, is marked in several Commonwealth countries by appointing new members of orders of chivalry and recipients of other official honours. Awards for 2001, announced on 30 December 2000, included the United Kingdom, New Zealand, the Cook Islands, Barbados, Grenada, Papua New Guinea, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Belize and Saint Christopher and Nevis.
United Kingdom
Privy Counsellor
    • Keith John Charles Bradley, M.P., Member of Parliament for Manchester, Withington.
    • Tessa Ann Vosper, Baroness Blackstone, Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment.
    • Minister of State, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
    • Treasurer of H.M. Household (Deputy Chief Whip).
Tessa Ann Vosper, Baroness Blackstone, Minister of State, Department for Education and Employment.
Keith John Charles Bradley, M.P., Member of Parliament for Manchester, Withington. Treasurer of H.M. Household (Deputy Chief Whip).
Wyvill Richard Nicolls Raynsford, M.P., Member of Parliament for Greenwich and Woolwich. Minister of State, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
Elizabeth Conway, Baroness Symons of Vernham Dean, Minister of State, Ministry of Defence.
Knight Bachelor
    • For services to Drama.
    • For services to Engineering and Construction.
    • For services to the Police.
    • For services to the Bioscience Industry.
    • For services to Design and Innovation.
    • For services to the community in Staffordshire.
    • For services to Rowing.
Nicolas Bevan, C.B., Speaker’s Secretary, House of Commons.
Professor Leszek Krzysztof Borysiewicz, Professor of Medicine, University of Wales. For services to Medical Research and Education.
Stanley William Clarke, C.B.E. For services to the community in Staffordshire.
Ronald Cohen, Chairman, Apax Partners and Co. For services to the Venture Capital Industry.
Thomas Daniel Courtenay, Actor. For services to Drama.
Edward Michael Crew, Q.P.M., Chief Constable, West Midlands Police. For services to the Police.
Robert Paul Culpin, Managing Director, Budget and Public finances, H.M. Treasury.
Professor Christopher Thomas Evans, O.B.E. For services to the Bioscience Industry.
Andrew William Foster, Controller, Audit Commission. For services to Local Government and to the NHS.
Alasdair MacLeod Fraser, C.B., Q.C. For services to the Criminal Justice System.
Professor Christopher John Frayling, Rector and Vice Provost, Royal College of Art. For services to Art and Design Education.
David McMurtry, C.B.E., Chief Executive, Renishaw plc. For services to Design and Innovation.
Duncan Michael, Chairman of Trustees, Ove Arup Partnership. For services to Engineering and Construction.
Patrick Alfred Caldwell Moore, C.B.E. For services to the Popularisation of Science and to Broadcasting.
John Orr, O.B.E., Q.P.M., Chief Constable, Strathclyde Police. For services to the Police.
Thomas John Parker, Group Chairman, Babcock International. For services to the Defence and Shipbuilding Industries.
Charles Pollard, Q.P.M., Chief Constable, Thames Valley Police. For services to the Police.
Steven Geoffrey Redgrave, C.B.E. For services to Rowing.
Peter Levin Shaffer, C.B.E., Playwright. For services to Drama.
Professor Christopher Hubert Llewellyn Smith, F.R.S., Provost and President, University College London. For services to Particle Physics.
John Edward Sulston, F.R.S., lately Director, Sanger Centre. For services to Genome Research.
Professor Christopher John White, C.V.O. For services to Art History.
David Martin Brown. For services to British industry.
Dr Anthony John Francis O’Reilly. For long and distinguished service to Northern Ireland.
Order of the Bath
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath (GCB)
    • Air Chief Marshal Sir Peter Squire, K.C.B., D.F.C., A.F.C., A.D.C., Royal Air Force.
Air Chief Marshal Sir Peter Squire, K.C.B., D.F.C., A.F.C., A.D.C., Royal Air Force.
Sir Richard (Thomas James) Wilson, K.C.B., Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service.
Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath (KCB)
    • Lieutenant General Timothy John Granville-Chapman, C.B.E., late Royal Regiment of Artillery.
    • Air Marshal Malcolm David Pledger, O.B.E., A.F.C., Royal Air Force.
Lieutenant General Timothy John Granville-Chapman, C.B.E., late Royal Regiment of Artillery.
Air Marshal Malcolm David Pledger, O.B.E., A.F.C., Royal Air Force.
Roger Tustin Jackling, C.B., C.B.E., Second Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Defence.
Christopher William Kelly, Permanent Secretary, Department of Health.
Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB)
    • Air Vice-Marshal David Miller Niven, C.B.E., Royal Air Force.
    • Rear Admiral John Chadwick.
    • David Robert Ritchie, Regional Director, Government Office for the West Midlands.
    • Rosalind, Mrs Wright, Director, Serious Fraud Office.
    • Donald Brereton, Director, Department of Social Security.
    • John Michael Legge, C.M.G., Principal Establishment Officer, Ministry of Defence.
Military Division
Rear Admiral John Chadwick.
Rear Admiral Brian Benjamin Perowne.
Major General Christopher George Callow, O.B.E., late Royal Army Medical Corps.
Major General Andrew Peter Ridgway, C.B.E., late Royal Tank Regiment.
Major General Timothy John Sulivan, C.B.E., late The Blues and Royals.
Air Vice-Marshal Steven Mark Nicholl, C.B.E., A.F.C., Royal Air Force.
Air Vice-Marshal David Miller Niven, C.B.E., Royal Air Force.
Civil Division
Donald Brereton, Director, Department of Social Security.
Paul Britton, Deputy Head, Economic and Domestic Secretariat, Cabinet Office.
Jonathan Stephen Cunliffe, Director, Monetary Policy and International Finance Directorate, H.M. Treasury.
Philip John Davies, Parliamentary Counsel, Office of the Parliamentary Counsel.
Richard Hillier, Director of Resources and Planning, Health and Safety Executive, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
William Alexander Jeffrey, Political Director, Northern Ireland Office.
John Michael Legge, C.M.G., Principal Establishment Officer, Ministry of Defence.
David Robert Ritchie, Regional Director, Government Office for the West Midlands.
Rosalind, Mrs Wright, Director, Serious Fraud Office.
Order of St Michael and St George
Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG)
    • Sir Peter John Goulden, K.C.M.G., Permanent Representative, UKDEL NATO, Brussels.
Sir Peter John Goulden, K.C.M.G., Permanent Representative, UKDEL NATO, Brussels.
Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG)
    • The Right Reverend Simon Barrington-Ward, Prelate, Order of Saint Michael and Saint George.
    • Derek John Plumbly, C.M.G., H.M.
Dr Arthur Richard Jolly. For long and distinguished service to international development.
Derek John Plumbly, C.M.G., H.M. Ambassador, Riyadh.
Nigel Elton Sheinwald, C.M.G., Permanent Representative, UKREP, Brussels.
The Right Reverend Simon Barrington-Ward, Prelate, Order of Saint Michael and Saint George.
Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG)
    • Professor Ivor Norman Richard Davies, For services to Central European history.
    • For services to OXFAM.
    • For services to Anglo-Taiwanese trade.
    • For services to UK-South East Asian relations.
    • For services to UK-Mauritius trade.
Andrew John Fraser, lately Chief Executive, Invest UK, Department of Trade and Industry.
John David Gould Isherwood. For services to OXFAM.
Peter Humphreys Kent. For services to Anglo-Taiwanese trade.
Patrick John Széll, Director and Head, International Environmental Law Division, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
Miss Alyson Judith Kirtley Bailes, H.M. Ambassador, Helsinki.
Anthony Russell Brenton, Director, Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Andrew Thomas Cahn, lately Chef de Cabinet, European Commission.
Professor Ivor Norman Richard Davies, For services to Central European history.
Miss Caroline Myfanwy Tonge Elmes, H.M. Ambassador, Luanda.
Professor Michael Leifer. For services to UK-South East Asian relations.
Helen Meixner (Mrs Jack Thornton), Regional Director Central Europe, British Council.
John McLeod Scarlett, O.B.E., Counsellor, Foreign and Commonwealth OYce.
Andrew William Graham Summers. For promotion of the excellence of UK design internationally.
Derek James Alexander Taylor. For services to UK-Mauritius trade.
Philip Lloyd Thomas, lately H.M. Consul-General, Düsseldorf.
Jeremy Walter Thorp, H.M. Ambassador, Bogota.
Royal Victorian Order
Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order (GCVO)
    • Sir Brian Henry McGrath, K.C.V.O., lately Treasurer to Duke of Edinburgh.
Sir Brian Henry McGrath, K.C.V.O., lately Treasurer to Duke of Edinburgh.
Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (KCVO)
    • Vice Admiral Sir James Lamb Weatherall, K.B.E., Marshal of the Diplomatic Corps.
Vice Admiral Sir James Lamb Weatherall, K.B.E., Marshal of the Diplomatic Corps.
Commander of the Royal Victorian Order (CVO)
    • John Francis Jarvis, C.B.E., lately Chairman of the Trading Board, The Prince’s Trust
Fiona Violet, Lady Aird, L.V.O., Lady in Waiting to The Princess Margaret, Countess of Snowdon
Captain Robert Neil Blair, L.V.O., Royal Navy, Private Secretary to Duke of York and Princess Alexandra, the Honourable Lady Ogilvy
John Francis Jarvis, C.B.E., lately Chairman of the Trading Board, The Prince’s Trust
Peter Hugh Trevor Mimpriss, Member of Council, The Prince’s Trust
The Lady Angela Mary Rose Oswald, L.V.O., Lady in Waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother
Lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order (LVO)
    • Miss Sandra Iris Henney, lately Press Secretary to The Prince of Wales.
    • Miss Rachel Anne Wells, M.V.O., Assistant Secretary, Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood.
    • Eric Percival Carr, lately Honorary Treasurer and Trustee of The Prince Philip Trust Fund for the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead.
Eric Percival Carr, lately Honorary Treasurer and Trustee of The Prince Philip Trust Fund for the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead.
Miss Sandra Iris Henney, lately Press Secretary to The Prince of Wales.
Miss Rachel Anne Wells, M.V.O., Assistant Secretary, Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood.
Member of the Royal Victorian Order (MVO)
    • Michael William Bourke, Financial Controller, Property Services and Royal Travel, Royal Household.
    • For services to The Prince of Wales.
Michael William Bourke, Financial Controller, Property Services and Royal Travel, Royal Household.
Patrick Stanley Michael Coles, Administrator, Western Provident Association.
Sergeant Paul Leslie Crisp, Royalty Protection Department, Metropolitan Police.
Sergeant Derek Victor Cross, Royalty Protection Department, Metropolitan Police.
Allison Sharaon Patricia Derrett, Assistant Registrar, Royal Archives, Royal Household.
Michael David Fawcett, Personal Consultant to The Prince of Wales.
Norma, Mrs Gardiner, lately Assistant Secretary to the Lieutenant Governor of Guernsey.
Peter John Godwin, Deputy Property Manager, Windsor Castle.
Inspector Charles James John Gouldsmith, lately Royalty Protection Department, Metropolitan Police.
Roger Francis Tollemache Halliday, Land Steward, Western District, Duchy of Cornwall.
Elizabeth Jill, Mrs. Kelsey, Assistant Registrar, Royal Archives, Royal Household.
Graham John Laywood, lately Building Surveyor, Duchy of Cornwall.
The Honourable Mary Yull MacKie, lately Personal Assistant to the Commonwealth Secretary-General.
Sister Catherine Teresa O’Donnell, Nursing Sister, Buckingham Palace.
Alexandra Shân, Mrs Pettifer. For services to The Prince of Wales.
Maree Elizabeth, Mrs Smith, Private Secretary to the Governor General of Australia.
Miss Dorothy Kathleen Ann Woolridge, Personal Assistant to the Governor General of Australia.
Bar to the  Royal Victorian Medal  (Silver) (RVM)
    • Ashley John Sadler, R.V.M., Motor Mechanic, Sandringham Estate.
    • David Hugh Farrow, R.V.M., Tractor Driver, Sandringham Estate.
Christopher Frederick Biggs, R.V.M., Foreman
David Hugh Farrow, R.V.M., Tractor Driver, Sandringham Estate.
Anthony Vernon Parnell, R.V.M., Foreman, Sandringham House.
Ashley John Sadler, R.V.M., Motor Mechanic, Sandringham Estate.
Royal Victorian Medal (Silver) (RVM)
    • Ronald John Smith, Works Supervisor, Mechanical and Engineering, Property Services, Buckingham Palace.
Gerald Shaun Alexander, Assistant Storekeeper, Crown Estate, Windsor.
Michael Stanley Ashton, Craftsman Fitter, Crown Estate, Windsor.
Constable Harold William Chappell, Royalty Protection Department, Metropolitan Police.
John William Christian, Yeoman Bed Goer, The Queen’s Body Guard of the Yeomen of the Guard.
Peter Donald, Works Department, Balmoral Estate.
Corporal of Horse Kenneth Reginald Freeman, The Queen’s Orderly.
Stephen Richard Frohawk, Tractor Driver, Sandringham Estate.
Constable Stanley Highmore, Royalty Protection Department, Metropolitan Police.
Ian Laurence King, lately Pipe Major to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.
Ian Cooper Masson, Forestry Department, Balmoral Estate.
Gerald Andrew Morriss, lately Show Ground Manager, Royal Windsor Horse Show.
Graham Paul Richards, Chef to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.
Ronald John Smith, Works Supervisor, Mechanical and Engineering, Property Services, Buckingham Palace.
Roger John Tyack, Divisional Sergeant Major, The Queen’s Body Guard of the Yeomen of the Guard.
Dennis Thomas Williams, Messenger Sergeant Major, The Queen’s Body Guard of the Yeomenof the Guard.
Order of the Companions of Honour  (CH)
    • For services to Music.
    • For services to Drama.
Sir Harrison Birtwistle, Composer. For services to Music.
David Paul Scofield, C.B.E., Actor. For services to Drama.
Order of the British Empire
Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE)
    • For services to Education.
    • For services to London and to Local Government.
    • For services to Nursing.
    • For services to Higher Education.
    • For services to Music.
Miss Jill Ellison, Nursing Director, Birmingham Heartlands and Solihull NHS Trust. For services to Nursing.
Miss Jean Else, Headteacher, Whalley Range High School, Manchester. For services to Education.
Miss Sharon Hollows, Headteacher, Calverton Primary School, Newham, London. For services to Education.
Miss Thea King (Mrs Thurston-King), O.B.E., Clarinettist. For services to Music.
Ms Sally Ann Vickers Powell, Member and Deputy Executive Mayor, London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham. For services to London and to Local Government.
Mary, Mrs Richardson, lately Principal, Convent of Jesus and Mary Language College, Brent. For services to Education.
Miss Janet Olive Trotter, O.B.E., Director, Cheltenham and Gloucester College of Higher Education. For services to Higher Education.
Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE)
    • Vice Admiral Fabian Michael Malbon.
Vice Admiral Fabian Michael Malbon.
Commanders of the Order of the British Empire (CBE)
    • For services to Drama.
    • For services to Health Services Research.
    • For services to Aviation.
    • For services to Consumers.
    • For services to Education.
    • For services to Dance.
    • For services to Social Services.
Military division
Navy
Commodore Adrian James Johns, Royal Navy.
Surgeon Captain Michael Atholl Farquharson-Roberts, Royal Navy.
Commodore Malcolm Stephen Williams, Royal Navy.
Army
Colonel Michael John Dent, M.B.E. (503659), late Royal Corps of Signals.
Brigadier Christopher Michael Steirn (495237), late The Royal Logistic Corps.
Air Force
Air Commodore Ronald Cook, Royal Air Force.
Air Commodore Raymond James Horwood, O.B.E., Royal Air Force.
Group Captain John William White, Royal Air Force.
Civil division
Miss Jennifer Abramsky, Director, BBC Radio and Music. For services to News and Radio Broadcasting.
Sidney Edmond Jocelyn Ackland, Actor. For services to Drama.
Mahbubuddin Ahmad, Chair, Millat Asian Housing Association. For services to the community in South London.
George Haylock Almond, M.B.E., D.L., County Fire Officer and Chief Executive, Greater Manchester County Fire Service. For services to the Fire Service.
Richard John William Alston, Choreographer and Artistic Director, The Place and Richard Alston Dance Company. For services to Dance.
Colin Angus Barnes, Non-executive Director, British Airways. For services to Aviation.
John Beacham. For services to the Chemical Industry.
Godfrey Gilbert Bevan, Director, Energy Technologies, Department of Trade and Industry.
Professor Kenneth George Binmore, Director, ESRC Centre for Economic Learning and Social Evolution. For services to Social Science.
Robin Michael Black, Chemist, Defence Evaluation and Research Agency, Ministry of Defence.
Julian Blogh, Chief Executive, Ultra Electronics. For services to the Defence and Aerospace Industries.
James Everett Brathwaite, Chairman, Business Link Sussex. For services to the Economy in Sussex.
John Stuart Bridgeman, T.D., D.L., lately Director General of Fair Trading. For services to Consumers.
Elizabeth Jane, Mrs. Brooks, lately Executive Director, Dyslexia Institute. For services to Education.
Alan Roy Brown, Director for Scotland, Employment Service, Department for Education and Employment.
John Richard Browning, lately Managing Director, Bristol Water Holdings plc. For services to the Water Industry.
Ian James Graham-Bryce, lately Principal and Vice Chancellor, University of Dundee. For services to Higher Education and to Research.
Professor Grahame Bulfield, Director and Chief Executive, Roslin Institute (Edinburgh). For services to Animal Genetics.
Patrick Moubray Cadell, Keeper of the Records of Scotland, Scottish Executive.
Clive Thomas Cain, Quality Director, Defence Estates, Ministry of Defence.
Felicity, Mrs. Clarkson, lately Head, Young Offenders Group, Home  Office.
Geoffrey Copeman, D.L., Vice Chairman, Eastern Counties Newspapers Group. For services to the Newspaper Industry.
Patricia Ann, Mrs. Cross, Headteacher, St John’s Church of England Primary School, Huddersfield, West Yorkshire. For services to Education.
Andrew Cubie. For services to Business and the community in Scotland.
Geoffrey Court Dart, Chief Executive. For services to the Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes.
John Richard Christopher Davies, Director of Social Services, Somerset County Council. For services to Social Services.
Professor Nicholas Edward Day, MRC Research Professor. For services to Statistics and Epidemiology underpinning Cancer Biology.
Edward Ralph Dexter. For services to Cricket.
Professor Patrick Joseph Dowling, Vice Chancellor and Chief Executive, University of Surrey. For services to Business/Academic Links.
Martin Dru Drury, For services to Conservation.
Ms Helen Edwards, Member, New Deal Task Force. For services to Unemployed People and Ex-Offenders.
Jonathan David Edwards, M.B.E. For services to Athletics.
Elwyn Owen Morris Eilledge, Chairman, Financial Reporting Advisory Board. For services to Financial Accounting.
Ursula Askham Fanthorpe, Poet. For services to Literature.
Ms Amanda Jane Finlay, Director, Public and Private Rights Directorate, Lord Chancellor's Department.
Professor Michael Richard Daniell Foot, T.D., Historian. For services to the Official History of the SOE.
Edward Patrick Gallagher, Chief Executive, Environment Agency. For services to the Environment.
Ian James Galloway, Chairman, Scotbeef Ltd. For services to the Beef Industry.
William Dennis Glass. For Public Service.
Alexander Muncie Gold, Director, Scottish Chambers of Commerce. For services to Industry and Business.
Ms Wilhelmina Barns-Graham, Painter. For services to Art.
Professor Andrew Graves. For services to Competitiveness in Industry.
Professor David Lawrence Hamblen, Chairman, Greater Glasgow Health Board and Emeritus Professor of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Glasgow. For services to the NHS.
Rosemary Katherine, Mrs. Hamilton. For services to Higher Education.
Margaret, Mrs Harrison, O.B.E. For services to Home-Start and to Support for Families.
Professor John Lawrence Head, Member, Nuclear Safety Advisory Committee. For services to Nuclear Safety.
Jacqueline, Mrs. Henderson, Chief Executive, National Council, Training and Enterprise Council. For services to Education and Training.
Miss Bronwyn Hill, Divisional Manager, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
Miss Judith Eileen Hill. For Public Service.
Ralph Noel Hodge, Chairman, Enron Europe Ltd. For services to the Power Generation and Gas Industries.
Michael Jolly, Chairman, Tussauds Group. For services to Tourism.
Robert Wynne Jones, Chair, East Midlands Regional Assembly. For services to Local Government in the East Midlands.
William Kenwright, Stage and Film Producer. For services to the Theatre and to Film.
Nicholas Roger Kenyon, Controller, BBC Proms, Live Events and TV Classical Music. For services to Music and Millennium Broadcasting.
Professor Rudolf Ewald Klein, Emeritus Professor of Social Policy, University of Bath. For services to Health Services Research.
Richard Kornicki, Head, Performance and Strategic Management Unit, Policing and Crime Reduction Group, Home Office.
Professor Parveen June Kumar, Professor of Clinical Medical Education, Consultant Physician and Gastroenterologist, Barts and the London NHS Trust. For services to Medicine.
Professor Lance Edward Lanyon, Principal, Royal Veterinary College. For services to Veterinary Education and Science.
Richard Neville Lay, lately Chairman, DTZ. For services to the Property Profession.
Richard Charles Leese, Leader, Manchester City Council. For services to the community and to Local Government.
Thomas William Anthony Little, lately Chief Executive, Veterinary Laboratories Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
Douglas Brian Liversidge, lately Project Director, Regional Innovation Strategy. For services to Industry.
Professor Ann Lomas Loades, Professor of Divinity, University of Durham. For services to Theology.
Geoffrey Loades, Chair, Norfolk and Waveney Training and Enterprise Council. For services to Training and Enterprise.
Thomas William Logan, Collector, H.M. Board of Customs and Excise.
Michael John Lowe, J.P., D.L., President, Shropshire Chamber of Commerce, Training and Enterprise. For services to Education, Training and Business Support.
Colin MacKay, lately President, Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. For services to Medicine.
John Makinson, Finance Director, Pearson Group. For services to Public Sector Productivity.
Professor David Melville, Chief Executive, Further Education Funding Council. For services to Education.
Adrian Montague, Deputy Chairman, Partnerships UK. For services to the Private Finance Initiative.
Richard Louis Ormond, lately Director, National Maritime Museum. For services to Museums.
Ms Anne Elizabeth Owers, Director, Justice. For services to Human Rights.
Susan Marie, Mrs. Page, Chief Executive, Northumbria Healthcare NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Graham Edward Parkinson. For services to the Stipendiary Bench and to the Administration of Justice.
Geraldine, Mrs. Peacock, Chair, Association of Chief Executives of Voluntary Organisations. For services to the Voluntary Sector.
Matthew Pinsent, M.B.E. For services to Rowing.
John Pope, Chief Executive, North West London Hospitals NHS Trust. For services to Health Care.
Professor Michael Alexander Pringle, Chairman of Council, Royal College of General Practitioners. For services to Medicine.
Barry Quirk, Chief Executive, London Borough of Lewisham. For services to Local Government.
Professor David William Rhind, Vice Chancellor, City University. For services to Geographical and Social Sciences.
Professor Michael Adrian Richards, National Cancer Director. For services to Cancer and Palliative Medicine.
Miss Joan Rodgers, Singer. For services to Opera.
David John Roe, lately Head, Financial Regulatory Reform Team, H.M.Treasury.
Hazel Joy, Mrs. Rollins, Nutrition Nurse Specialist, Luton and Dunstable Hospital, Bedfordshire. For services to Nursing.
John Francis Rourke, Principal, St. Charles Catholic Sixth Form College, Kensington and Chelsea, London. For services to Education.
John Scampion, Social Fund Commissioner for Great Britain and Northern Ireland. For services to the Independent Review Service.
Julian Robert Seymour. For public services.
Professor Wilson Sibbett, Professor of Physics and Director of Research, University of St Andrews. For services to Science.
Douglas Sinclair, Chief Executive, Fife Council. For services to Local Government.
Christopher Henry Sporborg. For charitable services.
Miss Jane Vivienne Stokes, Treasury Legal Adviser, Treasury Solicitor’s Department.
David Ivor Macpherson Sutherland, Registrar, General Teaching Council for Scotland. For services to Education.
Edward Nicholas Tate, lately Chief Executive, Qualifications and Curriculum Authority. For services to Education and to Training.
Robert Sydney Tinston, Regional Director, NHS Executive, Department of Health.
Miss Bridget Ellen Towle, Chief Guide and UK and Commonwealth Chief Commissioner. For services to Guiding.
Patricia Ann Troop, Deputy Chief Medical Officer, Department of Health.
Robin Anthony Vincent, Circuit Administrator, Court Service Agency, Lord Chancellor’s Department.
Robert Ward, Senior Civil Servant (Legal), Ministry of Defence.
Miss Fay Weldon, Author. For services to Literature.
Professor Geoffrey Whittington. For services to the Accounting Standards Board.
Michael James Wilford, Architect. For services to Architecture.
Miss Susan Margaret Wilson. For services to Economic Development in North East England.
Diplomatic and Overseas List
Michael Harrington Dale. For services to British commercial interests, North America.
Lyndon Rees Evans. For services to accelerator physics.
The Honourable Mr. Justice Gerald Michael Godfrey, lately Justice of Appeal, Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region.
Eric Edward Hotung. For services to British charitable interests overseas.
John Alexander Kennedy. For services to UK-Latin American trade.
The Honourable Mr. Justice Henry Denis Litton, O.B.E., Q.C., lately Judge, Hong Kong, Special Administrative Region.
Leopold Nathaniel Mills II. For public service, Bermuda.
Michael Shears. For services to international trade and trade development strategy.
Ljubo Franjo Sirc. For services to the promotion of democracy in Central and Eastern Europe.
Officers of the Order of the British Empire (OBE)
    • For services to Tourism.
    • For services to Patient Services.
    • For services to Further Education and to the community.
    • For services to Education.
    • For services to the community.
    • For services to Broadcasting.
    • For services to Further Education.
Military division
Navy
Commander Christopher Alcock. Royal Navy.
Captain Leslie Michael Coupland, Royal Fleet Auxiliary.
Captain John Kenneth Covell, Royal Navy.
Commander Peter Norman Payne-Hanlon, Royal Navy.
Commander Michael Dennis-Jones, Royal Navy.
Commander Robert Nairn, Royal Navy.
Army
Lieutenant Colonel Jonathan Harold Clough (493696), The Royal Logistic Corps.
Lieutenant Colonel Christopher Eldred Comport, T.D. (505386), Royal Regiment of Artillery, Territorial Army.
Lieutenant Colonel Douglas Eric Cook (510299), The Royal Logistic Corps.
Lieutenant Colonel Martin Charles Frostick (499701), Corps of Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers.
Lieutenant Colonel Richard Lewis Hall, M.B.E. (504459), The Royal Gloucestershire, Berkshire and Wiltshire Regiment.
Colonel John Richard Hennessy (519305), late Corps of Royal Engineers, Territorial Army.
Colonel Catherine Jane Kitchener (503280), late Adjutant General’s Corps (StaV and Personnel Support).
Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Dutton Mason (503873), The Parachute Regiment.
Colonel Philip Dermot McEvoy (514357), late Adjutant General’s Corps (Army Legal Services).
Lieutenant Colonel John Adrian Ris (481851), Corps of Royal Engineers.
Lieutenant Colonel David Ian Aubrey Spackman (480402), The Royal Regiment of Fusiliers.
Lieutenant Colonel Robert William Hamilton Sutcliffe (509220), The Royal Yeomanry, Territorial Army.
Air Force
Wing Commander David Clive Coombes (8023560B) Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Barbara Cooper (8032068L) Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Martin James Engwell (4231539Q), Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Mark Adrian Jeffery (2630144E), Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Stephen Long (5205113M), Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Christopher Andrew Murray (8108403P), Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Paul Nash (5202785Y), Royal Air Force.
Wing Commander Jonathan Colton Rigby (5205228J), Royal Air Force.
Overseas
Lieutenant Colonel Patrick MacIntyre Outerbridge, E.D., The Bermuda Regiment.
Civil division
Hazel, Mrs. Abbott, lately Headteacher, St. Cuthbert with St. Matthias Church of England Primary School, Kensington and Chelsea, London. For services to Education.
Richard John Adams. For services to the Promotion of Ethical Trading.
David Adlington, Pay Band F, Lord Chancellor’s Department.
Professor Peter John Aggett. For services to the Advisory Committee on Novel Foods and Processes.
Morag, Mrs. Alexander, Director, Equal Opportunities Commission, Scotland. For services to Equal Opportunities.
Captain Colin George Allen. For services to the National Historic Ships Committee.
Eileen, Mrs. Anderson, Headteacher, Carreghofa Primary School, Powys. For services to Education.
Miss Rowena Arshad, Director, Centre for Education for Racial Equality in Scotland. For services to Race Equality.
Alison, Mrs. Austin, Head, Environmental and Technical Communications, J Sainsbury plc. For services to the Environment and to Sustainable Development.
David Brian Baker, Archaeologist. For services to the conservation of the Historic Environment.
John Joseph Ballance, Project Manager, Wellcome Wing. For services to the Science Museum.
Maureen, Mrs. Bampton, Headteacher, Erddig Nursery School, North Wales. For services to Education.
Ms Caroline Mary Barker. For services to Videcom and to Small and Medium Businesses in China.
Murray Barnes, T.D. For Public Service.
William Jeffery Bartlett, lately Director-General, Paper Federation of Great Britain. For services to the Paper Industry.
John Michael Beaumont, Seigneur. For services to the community on Sark.
Elaine, Mrs. Bedford, lately Operations Director, English Tourist Board. For services to Tourism.
Andrew Collings Beer, Principal Establishment and Finance Officer, Government Actuary’s Department.
Sewsunker Awath-Behari, J.P. For services to the community in Wolverhampton, West Midlands.
Miss Floella Benjamin, Chairman, BAFTA. For services to Broadcasting.
Donald John Bennet, lately Chairman, Scottish Rights of Way Society. For services to Countryside and Mountain Access.
David Hywel Bennett, lately Principal, Sackville Community College, East Grinstead, West Sussex. For services to Education.
Stephen Hamilton Best. For services to Industry, Enterprise, Education and Training in Gwent.
Professor Helen Bevan, Redesign Director, National Patients’ Access Team. For services to the NHS.
Bimal Kanti Bhowmick, Consultant Physician. For services to Geriatric Medicine in Wales.
Peter Giles Biddle, Principal, P. G. Biddle Arboricultural Consultants. For services to Arboriculture and to the Environment.
Miss Dorothy Birchall. For services to the League for the Exchange of Commonwealth Teachers.
Matthew Christopher Bourne, Choreographer and Artistic Director, Adventures in Motion Pictures. For services to Dance.
Professor Brian Arthur Bridges. For services to the Cellular Effects of Radiation.
Geoffrey Brindle, lately Grade 7, Home Office. Captain James Armour Brown, R.D. For services to the Order of St John in Scotland.
John Logan Ian Brown, Officer in Charge, H.M. Board of Inland Revenue.
Pearl Holmes Brown, Chief Executive, Riverside Community Health Care Trust. For services to Health Care in London.
Michael John Bunce, lately Executive Director, Royal Television Society. For services to Broadcasting.
Michael Howard Butler. For services to the Mineworkers’ Pension Scheme.
Ian Charles Canadine. For services to the Institute of Logistics and Transport.
Jacqueline, Mrs. Cannon, Director of Research, Construction Forecasting and Research Ltd. For services to the Construction Industry and to the Housing Sector.
Professor Barry Carpenter, Principal/Chief Executive, Sunfield Independent Special School. For services to Children with Special Educational Needs.
Helen, Mrs. Carroll, Special Needs Midwife, South Manchester NHS Trust. For services to Homeless Women.
Miss Sally Cartwright, Publishing Director, HELLO! For services to the Periodical Publishers’ Association.
Andrew John Cash, Chief Executive, Northern General Hospital NHS Trust. For services to Health Care.
Sylvia Christine, Mrs. Cave, National Vice-President, Girls’ Brigade in England and Wales. For services to Young People.
William Henry Rymer Cayton, Chief Executive, Alzheimer’s Society. For services to People with Dementia.
Frederick Chambers, J.P. For services to the Royal Naval Association.
Reginald Chapman, Principal, Blackpool and the Fylde College, Lancashire. For services to Further Education.
Rakesh Chopra, General Medical Practitioner, Northumberland. For services to Health Care.
Victor George Spencer, Viscount Churchill. For services to the Church of England’s Central Board of Finance.
Andrew George Clark, Nuclear Safety and Quality Director, Devonport Management Ltd. For services to the Defence Industry.
Professor Leslie Arthur Clark, Professor of Structural Engineering, University of Birmingham. For services to Structural Engineering Research.
John Jeremy Cockburn, Operations Director, Canada, BAe Systems. For services to the Defence Industry.
Margaret MacFarlane, Mrs. Collinson, J.P. For services to Agriculture and to the community.
Calum Munro Colvin, Artist/Photographer. For services to the Visual Arts.
Frederick Comber, Consultant, RSPCA. For services to Animal Welfare.
Timothy John Connolly, Chairman, Connolly Leather Ltd. For services to the Leather Tanning Industry.
Marilyn Ann, Mrs. Cooke, H.M. Inspector of Schools, Office for Standards in Education. For services to Education, particularly the improvement of Schools.
John Cullen. For services to Dentistry.
Alan Cunningham, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence.
Professor Charles David Curtis, Chairman, Radioactive Waste Management Advisory Committee. For services to Environmental Protection.
Professor Stanley Dagg. For services to Waste Management.
Margaret Frances, Mrs. Dalton, Farmer. For services to Agriculture and to the community in Ceredigion.
Aman Dalvi, Chief Executive, Ujima Housing Association. For services to Housing.
Jim Davidson, Entertainer. For charitable services.
Professor Bleddyn Pryce Davies, lately Director, Personal Social Services Research Unit. For services to Social Science and Policy.
Richard Gordon Derwent, Grade 1B, Meteorological Office, Ministry of Defence.
Margaret Watt, Mrs. Dick. For services to the Institute of Chartered Foresters.
Thomas Andrew Divers, Chief Executive, Lanarkshire Health Board. For services to the NHS in Scotland.
Geoffrey Arnold Dobson. For services to the Association of Chief Officers of Probation.
Thomas Bernard Docherty, General Medical Practitioner, County Durham. For services to Health Care.
Robert Dover, Grade 6, Department of Social Security.
John Alan Drew, Branch Crown Prosecutor, Crown Prosecution Service.
Angus Dunphy, Headteacher, Fitzalan High School, Cardiff. For services to Education.
John Charles Neville Dyckhoff, Director of Catering, Metropolitan Police Service. For services to the Police and the Hospitality Industry.
Geoffrey Morton Edmondson. For services to Schools’ Sport.
Ann, Mrs. Elliott, Headteacher, Horton Grange County First School, Blyth, Northumberland. For services to Education.
Anita Georgina, Mrs. English, Director, Thames Valley Enterprise Board. For services to Training for Disadvantaged People.
David Meirion Evans, lately General Secretary, Prison Officers’ Association. For services to Employment Relations.
Dennis Henry Evans, Grade 7, Home Office.
Gillian, Mrs. Farnsworth, District Manager, Employment Service, Department for Education and Employment.
Robert Thomas Ferris. For services to the Fishing Industry.
Robert William Foot, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence.
Clara, Mrs. Freeman, Chairman, Opportunity Now. For services to Women in the Workforce.
Mary Ellen Eugenie, Lady Fretwell, Chairman, Passports for Pets. For services to Pet Owners and to Animal Welfare.
Professor Erwin Gabathuler, F.R.S. For services to Physics.
Denis Patterson Galway. For services to the Harbour Industry.
Ian Malcolm Gardiner, Deputy Director General, National Farmers’ Union. For services to Agriculture.
Alan Garner, Author. For services to Children’s Literature.
Stephen Cokayne Gibbs, Member, Deer Commission for Scotland. For services to Deer Management.
John Martin Gill, Chief Scientist, RNIB. For services to Information Technology for Partially Sighted People.
Professor Lynn Faith Gladden. For services to Chemistry.
Donald Grant, Q.F.S.M., Commandant, Scottish Fire Service Training School.
Roger Greenaway, Composer. For services to Popular Music.
Miss Patricia Mary Greenhalgh. For services to Evidence Based Medical Care.
Miss Miriam Greenwood, D.L., Director and Chief Operating Officer, British Linen Advisers. For services to Corporate Finance.
Peter Leslie Griffin. For services to School Governors in Cardiff.
Laurence David Gruer, Member, Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs, and Scottish Advisory Committee on Drug Misuse. For services to Public Health Medicine.
Peter Gurney, Officer in Charge, H.M. Board of Inland Revenue.
Miss Elizabeth Ann Gyngell, Head of Division, Health Directorate, Health and Safety Executive, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
David John Haines, Managing Director, Warwickshire Careers Service. For services to Young People and to Employers.
Miss Barbara Ann Hakin, Chief Executive, Bradford South and West Primary Care Trust. For services to the NHS.
Ian Hamer, J.P., Chair, Air Transport Users’ Council. For services to Air Travellers.
David John Harper, M.V.O., Chief Fire Officer, Royal Berkshire Fire and Rescue Service. For services to the Fire Service.
Keith William Harwood, Grade 7, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
Reatha Rachel, Mrs. Hassan. For services to the community.
Ian Hay, Chief Executive, Scottish Association of Master Bakers. For services to Vocational Education and Training.
Maurice Eugene Healy, Chairman, Insurance Ombudsman Bureau Council. For services to Consumers.
Miss Katherine Anne Henderson, Principal Auditor, National Audit Office.
Harold Derek Hepworth, J.P. For services to the Administration of Justice in Sheffield, South Yorkshire.
Derek John Higgins. For services to the community, especially Young People in Essex.
David Hirst, Engineering Director, Wardle Storeys. For services to the Defence Industry.
Miss Claire Alison Holder, Chief Executive, Notting Hill Carnival Trust. For services to the Arts.
Ms Diana Holland, National Organiser for Women, Race and Equalities, TGWU. For services to Equal Opportunities in Employment.
Martin Hopkins. For services to Sports Broadcasting.
Graham Wallis John Hoskin, Investigation Officer, H.M. Board of Inland Revenue.
Miss Ruth Mary Hussey, Director of Public Health, Liverpool Health Authority. For services to Health Care.
Jocelyn Elizabeth Anne Imrie. For services to the NHS in Scotland, especially Cervical Screening.
Professor Eric William Ives. For services to History and to the University of Birmingham.
Thomas Owen Leslie Jenkins, Secretary, European Union and International Relations, Trades Union Congress. For services to Employment Relations in the European Union.
Peter Simon Jenkinson, Director, Walsall Museums and The New Art Gallery. For services to Museums and to Art.
David Rowland John. For services to Education.
Gail Beverley, Mrs. Johnson, Family Centre Co-ordinator, Widden Primary School, Gloucester. For services to Education.
Alun Denry Wynn Jones, Chief Executive, Institute of Physics. For services to the Defence Industry.
Christine Jane, Mrs. Jones. For services to the Oil and Gas Industry.
Timothy John Cooper-Jones, Project Director, Unilever. For services to the Food Industry.
Trevor Chave Jones, lately Grade B1, Ministry of Defence.
Peter John Jordan, Chairman, Pilgrim NHS Trust. For services to the community in Boston, Lincolnshire.
Michael John David Keatinge, Head, Architecture Branch, Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Lynda, Mrs. Keith, Head of Private Office, NHS Executive, Department of Health.
James Keith Killby. For services to Anglo-Italian Relations through the Monte San Martino Trust.
Joan Elizabeth Laing. For services to the British Red Cross Society in Herefordshire and Worcestershire.
Brian Lamb. For services to Disabled People.
Charles Peter Lamb, lately Grade 7, Department for Education and Employment.
Gerald Lanchin. For services to Consumers.
Jonathan William Miles Lane. For services to Water Aid.
John Jeffrey Lavin, Deputy Director, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. For services to Conservation through the Millennium Seed Bank Project.
Miss Susan Lawley. For services to Television and Radio Broadcasting.
Shek-Yung Lee. For services to the Chinese Community.
Miss Denise Lewis, M.B.E., For services to Athletics.
Angus Roderick MacKay, Unit Manager, Orchard Lodge, London. For services to Young Offenders.
Donald Mackenzie MacKay, Member, Comhairle Nan Eilean Siar. For services to Local Government and to the community in the Western Isles.
Ms Susan MacQueen. For services to Infection Control Nursing at Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, London and Overseas.
Robert James Magee. For services to the Food and Drink Industry.
Ms Stella Manzie, Chief Executive, West Berkshire Council. For services to Local Government.
Douglas Brown McArthur. For services to the Radio Advertising Bureau.
Andrew McCully, Divisional Manager, Department for Education and Employment.
William Duncan McInnes. For services to Youth Basketball.
Ian McKinlay, Consultant Paediatric Neurologist. For services to Disabled People.
Veronica Beverley, Mrs. McLaughlin, Headteacher, Leith Walk Primary School, Edinburgh. For services to Primary Education.
Alan McQuillan. For services to the Police.
Adrian Metcalfe. For Services to Sport.
Greville John Mitchell. For charitable services on Guernsey and overseas.
Alan Francis Morgan. For services to the Welsh Development Agency.
Raymond James Mullan. For services to Education.
Petronella Joy, Mrs. Mwasandube, Deputy Director of Nursing, Heatherwood and Wexham Park Hospitals, Berkshire. For services to Ethnic Minority Patients and Staff.
Raymond Nash, District Manager, Thameside, Employment Service, Department for Education and Employment.
Elizabeth, Mrs. Dunbar-Nasmith. For services to the Soldiers’, Sailors’ and Airman’s Families Association in Moray and Banffshire.
Richard John Nelmes, Professor, University of Edinburgh and Senior Visiting Fellow at CLRC. For services to Science.
Michael Noble. For services to Research into Poverty and Deprivation.
Bernard Victor Norgan. For charitable services.
Sister Helen O’Dwyer. For services to Education.
Patrick Lauri Oakey. For services to Legislation.
John Oldham, General Medical Practitioner, Glossop. For services to Patient Services.
Winifred Kit, Mrs. Oliver, D.L., Member, Mole Valley District Council. For services to Business and to the Environment in Surrey.
Marion, Mrs. Pagani. For services to the Children’s Hearing System in Glasgow.
Sara Lamb, Mrs. Parkin, Director, Forum for the Future. For services to Education and to Sustainable Development.
Joseph Philip Parkinson, J.P. For services to the administration of Justice and Blind People in Leicestershire.
Jacky, Mrs. Peacock. For services to the Brent Private Tenants’ Rights Group, London.
Ms Patricia Pearce, lately Director, Careers Service, University of Westminster. For services to Careers Education.
Robert Pendlebury, Chairman, Northumbria Tourist Board. For services to Tourism.
Miss Jean Frances Perkins. For services to Netball.
Michael Charles Petch, Chairman, Advisory Panel on Cardiac Conditions and Driving. For services to Road Safety.
Christopher Frank Rendall Potter, Headteacher, Old Swinford Hospital School, Stourbridge, West Midlands. For services to Education.
Miss Anne Margaret Powell. For services to Conservation and to Freshwater Fisheries.
David Elwyn Powell, lately Grade 7, National Assembly for Wales.
John Henry Rolland Ramsay. For services to Macmillan Cancer Relief and to the Hospice Movement in North East England.
Ms Jane Margaret Rapley, Dean, Fashion and Textiles, Central St Martins College of Art and Design, London Institute. For services to Higher Education.
Michael David Maxwell Rea. For services to Education.
Miss Dale Reid. For services to Women’s Golf.
Professor John Low Reid. For services to Biomedical Science.
Kenneth Ernest Reid. For services to Sport.
William Martin Ritchie. For services to Computer Technology and Business in Scotland.
Miss Erica Roberts, Director, Millennium Awards. For services to the Millennium Commission.
Anthony Charles Robinson, Chief Executive, Small Firms Enterprise Development Initiative. For services to Training and to Small Firms.
Noel Rogers, National Chairman of Fundraising. For services to the Royal British Legion.
Hilary Rolls, lately B2, Ministry of Defence.
Miss Patricia Maria Rozario, Singer. For services to Opera.
Rex Rozario, Founder, Graphic plc. For services to the Electronics Industry.
Anil Kumar Ruia, Director, Wrengate Ltd. For services to Business in Manchester.
Donald Rutherford. For services to Rugby Union Football.
David Joseph Seligman. For services to the community in Cardiff.
Margaret Olivia, Mrs. Semple. For services to Learning Experience and Arts Education.
James Reid Sewell, City Archivist, Corporation of London. For services to the City of London and to Municipal Archives.
Kenneth Everatt Shackleton. For services to the New Deal in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire.
John David Roger Shore, Deputy Treasury Accountant, H.M. Treasury.
The Very Reverend John Arthur Simpson, lately Dean of Canterbury. For services to the Church of England.
Muriel, Mrs. Singleton. For services to Pharmacy Education and Training.
James Skinner, Chairman, Glasgow Community College Group. For services to Further Education and to the community.
Professor Francis Jack Smith. For services to Computer Science.
Gladys Isabella, Mrs. Smyth, T.D. For public service.
Ian Thomas Snodgrass. For services to Town and Country Planning in Renfrewshire.
Professor Roy Archibald Joseph Spence, J.P. For services to the Police.
Miss Eileen Ann Patricia Stewart, Principal Crown Prosecutor, Crown Prosecution Service.
Hazel, Mrs. Stuteley, Health Visitor, Falmouth, Cornwall. For services to the community.
Rabbi Nachman Sudak, Principal, Lubavitch Youth Organisation. For services to Young People.
Brian Ronald Thomas, Senior Group Leader, AWE Aldermaston. For services to the Defence Industry.
John Hylton Thomas, Headteacher, Wootton Bassett County Secondary School, Wiltshire. For services to Education.
Miss Beverley Thompson, Director of Race and Criminal Justice, NACRO. For services to Race Equality.
David James Thompson. For services to Education.
Sheila, Mrs. Thorpe, Head of Centre, Hillfields Early Excellence Centre, Coventry, West Midlands. For services to Education.
Miss Mary Geraldine Tigchelaar. For services to Education.
Christine Elizabeth, Mrs. Tulloch, Assistant Director, HM Board of Inland Revenue.
Ms Julia Unwin. For services to the Housing Corporation.
Professor Michael Barham Usher, Chief Scientist, Scottish Natural Heritage. For services to Conservation Science.
Ramesh Kanji Vala. For services to the Asha Foundation.
Jane Mylander, Mrs. Wainwright, Director of Information Systems, House of Commons.
Hugh Richard Walduck, J.P., D.L. For services to the community in London and Hertfordshire.
Mary Marjorie, Mrs. Walker, Member, London Borough of Croydon. For services to the community..
Miss Anne Frances Wallis, Assistant Director, Rough Sleepers’ Unit, Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.
Geoffrey Martin Wanstall, Grade B2, Defence Evaluation and Research Agency, Ministry of Defence.
Colin Warden, Chief Executive, Castle McLellan Foods Ltd. For services to the Scottish Food Industry.
Ms Jenifer Warren. For services to the Encouragement of Breast Feeding.
Gerald Arthur Henry Wells, lately Grade 6, Veterinary Laboratories Agency, Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food.
Peter Welsh, Director, UKAEA, Dounreay. For services to the Nuclear Industry.
Professor David Rex Westbury, Vice Principal, University of Birmingham. For services to Higher Education.
Audrey, Mrs. Westhead, Headteacher, Chesnut Lodge Special School, Widnes, Cheshire. For services to Children with Special Educational Needs.
Alan David Wilson, Senior Manager, Anti Smuggling, H.M. Board of Customs and Excise.
Frederick Thomas Wilson, Q.P.M. For services to the Royal Air Forces Association in North East England.
Ms Judy Wilson. For services to health care.
Michael John Wilson, Grade 6, Department for International Development.
Jeffrey Moss Woolf, Managing Director, MicroMap Ltd. For services to Innovation and Business.
Andrew Paul Kilding Wright. For services to Architecture and the Built Heritage in Scotland.
Kenneth Yard, lately Head, Technology Sectors Unit, Department of Trade and Industry.
Professor Lola Young, Professor, Middlesex University. For services to British Black History.
Maire, Mrs. Young. For services to Young People.
Diplomatic and Overseas List
Georgina Teresa, Mrs. Ashworth. For services to international human rights.
Geoffrey Frederick Bacon. For services to UK-Canadian relations.
The Right Reverend Kenneth Lawrence Barham. For services to the communities of Central Africa.
Sonia Wild, Mrs. Bicanic. For services to UK-Croatian cultural relations.
Allen Christopher Brookes, First Secretary, British High Commission, Canberra.
Nicholas John Burraston. For services to UK commercial interests in Hungary.
Dr. Fiona Jean Ward Burslem. For services to health care in Pakistan.
Christopher Cviic. For services to the promotion of democracy in Central Europe.
Alan Richard Kirk Dickson. For service to the British community in Argentina.
Dr. Michael David Downham, M.B.E. For services to the community, Sierra Leone.
Michael Reginald Frost, lately First Secretary, Lagos.
Professor Joseph Roger Carby-Hall. For services to UK-Polish relations and international law.
Professor Anthony David Harries. For services to the study of tuberculosis in Africa.
Graham Peter Harris, M.B.E., Security Officer, British High Commission, Pretoria.
Dr. John Hawkins, Acting Head of Finance, British Council Headquarters.
Dr. Lynne Myfanwy Jones. For services to child psychology and mental health in war-affected areas of Central Europe.
Ethel, Mrs. De Keyser. For services to human rights.
Captain Mabry Salisbury Kirkconnell, M.B.E., J.P. For public service, Cayman Islands.
Irving Yee Yin Koo. For services to British commercial interests, Hong Kong.
Andrzej Filip Krassowski, lately Assistant Director Development, UN Secretariat.
Leah Sarah, Mrs. Levin. For services to international human rights.
George Colin Magnus. For services to Chevening Scholarships in Hong Kong.
Thomas Gregory Burns Maranon. For services to UK-Spanish cultural relations.
James Rae McCulloch, H.M. Ambassador, Reykjavik.
Michael McDowell, Senior Director, Overseas Development Council.
Kenneth John Millband. For services to the local community in Nepal.
Valerie Joy, Mrs. Mitchell. For services to The English Speaking Union.
Dr. Alastair Neil Robertson Niven, Director Literature, British Council Headquarters.
Miss Charlotte Tessa Rampling. For services to acting and UK-French cultural relations.
Professor Vera Helen Rees. For services to health care in South Africa.
Dr. Paul David Sayer. For services to veterinary medicine in Kenya.
Sister Maria Lia Schwarzmueller. For services to leprosy relief in Tanzania.
Dominic Kingsley Eason Scott, lately First Secretary (Education Development), British High Commission, New Delhi.
Michael Roger Pearson Smith. For services to British commercial interests in Argentina.
Paul Stanislas. For services to British commercial interests in the United States of America.
Patrick Stewart. For services to acting and the cinema.
Maureen Patricia, Mrs. Stratford. For services to the mentally handicapped in Guangzhou, China.
Dr. Reginald Brian Stratford. For services to the mentally handicapped in Guangzhou, China.
David Martin Tait. For services to the Promotion of British aviation interests in the United States of America.
Dr. Robin Erskine Tattersall. For public service, British Virgin Islands.
Michael Denis Alistair Terry. For services to human rights.
Richard Paul Raynier Thompson, First Secretary, Foreign and Commonwealth OYce.
Anthony Trew. For services to British commercial interests and the community, Abu Dhabi.
John Watson. For services to British commercial interests in the United States of America.
Alan James White, British Consul (locally engaged), Gothenburg.
New Zealand
New Zealand Order of Merit
Principal Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit (PCNZM)
Distinguished Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit (DCNZM)
Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit (CNZM)
Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit (ONZM)
Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit (MNZM)
Additional Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit (ONZM)
Additional Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit (MNZM)
Honorary Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit (ONZM)
Honorary Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit (MNZM)
Queen's Service Order
Companions of the Queen's Service Order for Community Service (QSO)
Companions of the Queen's Service Order for Public Services (QSO)
Queen's Service Medal
Queen's Service Medal for Community Service (QSM)
Queen's Service Medal for Public Services (QSM)
References

