February 2017 Donald Trump speech to joint session of Congress
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/February%202017%20Donald%20Trump%20speech%20to%20joint%20session%20of%20Congress
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License


President Donald Trump addressing Congress, with Vice President Mike Pence and House Speaker Paul Ryan.

View from the Executive Gallery of the House Chamber
February 2017 Donald Trump speech to joint session of Congress
    • The 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, gave his first public address before a joint session of the United States Congress on Tuesday, February 28, 2017.
    • During his speech, President Trump announced the creation of the Office of Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) in the United States Department of Homeland Security.


The 45th President of the United States, Donald Trump, gave his first public address before a joint session of the United States Congress on Tuesday, February 28, 2017. Similar to a State of the Union address, it was delivered before the 115th United States Congress in the Chamber of the United States House of Representatives in the United States Capitol. Presiding over this joint session was the House Speaker, Paul Ryan. Accompanying the Speaker of the House was the President of the United States Senate, Mike Pence, the Vice President of the United States.
During his speech, President Trump announced the creation of the Office of Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement (VOICE) in the United States Department of Homeland Security.
Veterans Affairs Secretary David Shulkin was the designated survivor and did not attend the address in order to maintain a continuity of government. He was sequestered at a secret secure location for the duration of the event.
Reception
    • The speech was considered more optimistic, conciliatory and politically conventional and "presidential" than Trump's typically populist manner of speaking, at a time in which he was receiving historically low approval ratings.
    • Fact-checkers noted that although Trump's speech to Congress had "fewer untrue statements than many of his remarks", the address nevertheless included numerous false and misleading statements on a variety of issues, including the federal budget, immigration and crime, immigration and the economy, welfare, and the job impact of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines.
Fact-checkers noted that although Trump's speech to Congress had "fewer untrue statements than many of his remarks", the address nevertheless included numerous false and misleading statements on a variety of issues, including the federal budget, immigration and crime, immigration and the economy, welfare, and the job impact of the Keystone XL and Dakota Access Pipelines.
The speech was considered more optimistic, conciliatory and politically conventional and "presidential" than Trump's typically populist manner of speaking, at a time in which he was receiving historically low approval ratings.
Democratic responses
    • Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont (an independent who caucuses with the Democrats in the Senate) responded to the speech in a 14-minute video posted to Facebook, in which he criticized Trump for failing to make any mention of income inequality, criminal justice reform, or climate change.
    • According to the Democratic think-tank Center for American Progress, Trump made 51 false or manipulative statements during his speech.
For the Democratic Party, former Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear provided the response; activist Astrid Silva of Nevada offered another response for the party in Spanish. Beshear spoke at a diner in Lexington, Kentucky.
Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont (an independent who caucuses with the Democrats in the Senate) responded to the speech in a 14-minute video posted to Facebook, in which he criticized Trump for failing to make any mention of income inequality, criminal justice reform, or climate change. Sanders also stated: "President Trump once again made it clear he plans on working with Republicans in Congress who want to repeal the Affordable Care Act, throw 20 million Americans off of health insurance, privatize Medicare, make massive cuts in Medicaid, raise the cost of prescription drugs to seniors, eliminate funding for Planned Parenthood, while at the same time, he wants to give another massive tax break to the wealthiest Americans."
According to the Democratic think-tank Center for American Progress, Trump made 51 false or manipulative statements during his speech.
Viewership
    • Trump's speech was aired live on 11 broadcast and cable news networks, and viewed on TV by an estimated 47.7 million people in the United States.
Trump's speech was aired live on 11 broadcast and cable news networks, and viewed on TV by an estimated 47.7 million people in the United States.
Total cable and network viewers
See also
    • First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency
    • List of joint sessions of the United States Congress
2016 United States presidential election
First 100 days of Donald Trump's presidency
List of joint sessions of the United States Congress
References
External links
    • Remarks by President Trump in Joint Address to Congress at whitehouse.gov
    • "Donald Trump's Congress speech (full text)".
    • President Trump Addresses Joint Session Congress on C-SPAN
    • Index to the President Trump's address to the Joint Session of the Congress on Feb, 2017 plus concordance Prepared by Indexia.info
Index to the President Trump's address to the Joint Session of the Congress on Feb, 2017 plus concordance Prepared by Indexia.info
Remarks by President Trump in Joint Address to Congress at whitehouse.gov
"Donald Trump's Congress speech (full text)". CNN. Retrieved May 10, 2017.
About the address at whitehouse.gov
The Joint Session of Congress. Feb 28, 2017. Washington, DC. on YouTube by The White House
President Trump Addresses Joint Session Congress on C-SPAN
Former Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear Delivers Joint Session Democratic Response on C-SPAN
Former Kentucky Governor Steve Beshear Delivers Joint Session Democratic Response (transcript)
