Kosovo women's national football team
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kosovo_women%27s_national_football_team
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License

Kosovo women's national football team
    • The Kosovo women's national football team (Albanian: Kombëtarja e futbollit të femrave të Kosovës, Serbian: Женска фудбалска репрезентација Косова/Ženska fudbalska reprezentacija Kosova) represents Kosovo in international women's football and is controlled by the Football Federation of Kosovo.
The Kosovo women's national football team (Albanian: Kombëtarja e futbollit të femrave të Kosovës, Serbian: Женска фудбалска репрезентација Косова/Ženska fudbalska reprezentacija Kosova) represents Kosovo in international women's football and is controlled by the Football Federation of Kosovo.
History
    • On 3 May 2016 at the Ordinary Congress, Kosovo were accepted into UEFA after members voted 28–24 in favor of Kosovo.
In 2010, the national team is established. On 6 February 2013, FIFA gave the permission to play international friendly games against other member associations.
On 3 May 2016 at the Ordinary Congress, Kosovo were accepted into UEFA after members voted 28–24 in favor of Kosovo.
Match record
    • On 9 January 2017, the national team for the first time was able to enter tournaments organized by FIFA and will play their first competitive matches in the qualification rounds for the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup.
    • On 1 March 2017.
    • Kosovo played its first international match as FIFA member, in the framework of a tournament against Poland.
On 1 March 2017. Kosovo played its first international match as FIFA member, in the framework of a tournament against Poland. The match ended in a 0–5 defeat.  On 9 January 2017, the national team for the first time was able to enter tournaments organized by FIFA and will play their first competitive matches in the qualification rounds for the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup.
FIFA Women's World Cup
UEFA Women's Championship
Turkish Women's Cup
    • Kosovo was invited for first time to the Turkish Women's Cup.
In 2017. Kosovo was invited for first time to the Turkish Women's Cup. They were sorted into a group with Poland, Romania and Turkey and ended the last with 3 defeats.
Fixtures and results
    • For all past match results of the women's national team, see single-season articles and the team's results page
For all past match results of the women's national team, see single-season articles and the team's results page
2018
2019
2020
Players
Current squad
    • The following players have been called up for the friendly matches against  North Macedonia, on 5 and 8 April 2019.All caps and goals as of 5 April 2019 after match against  North Macedonia, only matches as FIFA member are included.
The following players have been called up for the friendly matches against  North Macedonia, on 5 and 8 April 2019.All caps and goals as of 5 April 2019 after match against  North Macedonia, only matches as FIFA member are included.[a]
.mw-parser-output .nat-fs-player th{background-color:inherit;border:0}.mw-parser-output .nat-fs-player td{text-align:center;border:0}
Recent call-ups
    • The following players have been called up for the team within the last 12 months and are still available for selection.
The following players have been called up for the team within the last 12 months and are still available for selection.


Notes
INJ = Not part of the current squad due to injury.
Coaching staff
Head-to-head records against other countries
    • As of 9 November 2018Head-to-head records are included only matches as FIFA member.
As of 9 November 2018Head-to-head records are included only matches as FIFA member.
Notes and references
Notes
References
External links
    • Kosovo (women) News about the team
Official website (in Albanian) ‹See Tfd›(in English)
Kosovo (women) News about the team
