2018 United States House of Representatives elections in New Hampshire
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Levi%20Sanders
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License

2018 United States House of Representatives elections in New Hampshire
    • The 2018 United States House of Representatives elections in New Hampshire were held on November 6, 2018, to elect the two U.S.
    • Following the 2018 elections, the Democratic Party retained both of New Hampshire's House seats in Congress, and thus maintained control of all of New Hampshire's Congressional (House and Senate) delegation.
The 2018 United States House of Representatives elections in New Hampshire were held on November 6, 2018, to elect the two U.S. Representatives from the state of New Hampshire, one from each of the state's two congressional districts. The elections coincided with other elections to the House of Representatives, elections to the United States Senate and various state and local elections.
Following the 2018 elections, the Democratic Party retained both of New Hampshire's House seats in Congress, and thus maintained control of all of New Hampshire's Congressional (House and Senate) delegation.
District 1
    • She did not run for reelection in 2018.
    • The 1st district covers the southeastern part of the state and consists of three general areas: Greater Manchester, the Seacoast and the Lakes Region.
The 1st district covers the southeastern part of the state and consists of three general areas: Greater Manchester, the Seacoast and the Lakes Region. The incumbent going into the election was Democrat Carol Shea-Porter, who has represented the district since 2017 and previously from 2007 to 2011 and 2013 to 2015. She was elected with 44% of the vote in 2016, defeating Republican incumbent Frank Guinta. She did not run for reelection in 2018.
Democratic primary
Candidates
Nominee
    • Chris Pappas, Executive Councilor of New Hampshire for the 4th District
Chris Pappas, Executive Councilor of New Hampshire for the 4th District
Lost in primary
    • Lincoln Soldati, former mayor of Somersworth and former Strafford County Attorney
    • Mark MacKenzie, state representative and former president of the New Hampshire AFL-CIO
Naomi Andrews, former aide to Carol Shea-Porter
Paul Cardinal, businessman
Mark MacKenzie, state representative and former president of the New Hampshire AFL-CIO
William Martin
Deaglan McEachern, businessman
Mindi Messmer, state representative
Terence M. O'Rourke, current Rochester City Attorney; former Assistant United States Attorney and Assistant County Attorney; Iraq War veteran  (not in relation with Beto O'Rourke)
Levi Sanders, son of U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders
Lincoln Soldati, former mayor of Somersworth and former Strafford County Attorney
Maura Sullivan, former Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs, former U.S. Marine Corps Officer and Iraq War veteran
Declined
    • Terie Norelli, state representative and former Speaker of the New Hampshire House of Representatives
Jackie Cilley, state representative and candidate for governor in 2012
Terie Norelli, state representative and former Speaker of the New Hampshire House of Representatives
Carol Shea-Porter, incumbent representative
David Watters, state senator
Endorsements
Primary results
Republican primary
Candidates
Nominee
    • Eddie Edwards, former Chief of the New Hampshire State Division of Liquor Enforcement and former South Hampton Police Chief
Eddie Edwards, former Chief of the New Hampshire State Division of Liquor Enforcement and former South Hampton Police Chief
Lost in primary
    • Andy Sanborn, state senator
    • Andy Martin, former congressional aide
Michael Callis
Jeff Denaro, contractor
Andy Martin, former congressional aide
Andy Sanborn, state senator
Withdrew
    • Bruce Crochetiere, businessman
Bruce Crochetiere, businessman
Declined
    • Dan Innis, state senator and candidate for this seat in 2014
    • John Stephen, former commissioner of the New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services, candidate for this seat in 2002 and 2008 and nominee for governor in 2010
Dan Innis, state senator and candidate for this seat in 2014
John Stephen, former commissioner of the New Hampshire Department of Health & Human Services, candidate for this seat in 2002 and 2008 and nominee for governor in 2010
Endorsements
Primary results
Libertarian primary
Candidates
Declared
    • Dan Belforti
Dan Belforti
Independent candidates
Declared
    • Eric R. Eastman, Justice Progressive candidate, former state representative, actor and director.
Eric R. Eastman, Justice Progressive candidate, former state representative, actor and director.
General election
Polling
Results
District 2
    • The 2nd district covers the western and northern parts of the state and includes the cities of Nashua and Concord.
    • The incumbent is Democrat Ann McLane Kuster, who has represented the district since 2013.
The 2nd district covers the western and northern parts of the state and includes the cities of Nashua and Concord. The incumbent is Democrat Ann McLane Kuster, who has represented the district since 2013. She was re-elected with 49.7% of the vote in 2016.
Democratic primary
Candidates
    • Ann McLane Kuster, incumbent Representative
Ann McLane Kuster, incumbent Representative
Primary results
Republican primary
Candidates
Declared
    • Steve Negron, state representative
    • Robert Burns, former Hillsborough County Treasurer
    • Lynne Blankenbeker, former state representative
Brian Belanger, businessman
Gerard Beloin
Lynne Blankenbeker, former state representative
Robert Burns, former Hillsborough County Treasurer
Stewart Levenson, doctor and whistleblower
Jay Mercer
Steve Negron, state representative
Withdrew
    • Jack Flanagan, former Majority Leader of the New Hampshire House of Representatives and candidate for this seat in 2016
Jack Flanagan, former Majority Leader of the New Hampshire House of Representatives and candidate for this seat in 2016
Declined
    • Josh McElveen, political director and news anchor for WMUR-TV
Josh McElveen, political director and news anchor for WMUR-TV
Endorsements
Primary results
Libertarian primary
Candidates
Declared
    • Tom Alciere, former Republican state representative
Justin O'Donnell, Libertarian Activist, Member of The Libertarian National Committee, Sales Consultant and National Guard Veteran
Tom Alciere, former Republican state representative
Primary results
Independent/Other
Candidates
Declared
    • Dexter W. Dow, Social/Political Activist
Dexter W. Dow, Social/Political Activist
General election
Polling
Results
See also
    • United States House of Representatives elections, 2016
United States House of Representatives elections, 2016
United States elections, 2016
References
External links
    • Chris Pappas (D) for Congress
    • Official campaign websites for second district candidates
    • Nansi Boutwell Craig (I) for Congress
    • Gary Moody (I) for Congress
    • Eddie Edwards (R) for Congress
    • Official campaign websites for first district candidates
    • Dan Belforti (L) for Congress
Candidates at Vote Smart
Candidates at Ballotpedia
Campaign finance at FEC
Campaign finance at Center for Responsive Politics
Official campaign websites for first district candidates
Dan Belforti (L) for Congress
Nansi Boutwell Craig (I) for Congress
Eddie Edwards (R) for Congress
Chris Pappas (D) for Congress
Official campaign websites for second district candidates
Ann McLane Kuster (D) for Congress
Gary Moody (I) for Congress
Steve Negron (R) for Congress
Justin O'Donnell (L) for Congress
