Sonosalpingography
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sonosalpingography
Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0:
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Text_of_Creative_Commons_Attribution-ShareAlike_3.0_Unported_License

Sonosalpingography
    • Sonosalpingography (SSG), also known as Sion test, is a diagnostic procedure primarily used for evaluating patency of fallopian tubes.
Sonosalpingography (SSG), also known as Sion test, is a diagnostic procedure primarily used for evaluating patency of fallopian tubes.  It was introduced as a screening procedure for infertility investigations. It is becoming more popular among practitioners due to absence of side effects.
Procedure
    • Presence of free fluid in pouch of Douglas also confirms tubal patency.
    • By visualizing the flow of saline along the tube and observing it as a shower at fimbrial end, tubal patency can be tested.
Under ultrasound scanning, a slow and deliberate injection of about 200 ml physiologic saline into the uterine cavity is accomplished via Foley catheter. An inflated bulb of the catheter prevents leakage of fluid outside uterine cavity. By visualizing the flow of saline along the tube and observing it as a shower at fimbrial end, tubal patency can be tested. Presence of free fluid in pouch of Douglas also confirms tubal patency.
Uses
    • For detecting patency of fallopian tube
For detecting patency of fallopian tube
Detection of submucous fibroid polyp
Detection of some intrauterine lesions
Part of infertility investigations
Investigation of amenorrhea, especially in Asherman's syndrome
Investigating repeat pregnancy losses for uterine anomalies
Eponym
    • The term 'Sion test' was popularized by Gautam Allahbadia after the popular government hospital in Sion, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, locally known as 'Sion hospital', where he invented the test.
The term 'Sion test' was popularized by Gautam Allahbadia after the popular government hospital in Sion, Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital, locally known as 'Sion hospital', where he invented the test.
See also
    • Hysterosalpingography
    • Gynecological ultrasound
Hysterosalpingography
Gynecological ultrasound
References
